#summary This article is a quick guide on how to get up and running fast with Flotr.

= Preparing the HTML =
To use Flotr you’ll need to include the following scripts between the header tags.

{{{
<!--[if IE]><script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="path/to/excanvas.js"></script><![endif]-->
<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="path/to/prototype-x.x.x.x.js"></script>
<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="path/to/base64.js"></script>
<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="path/to/canvas2image.js"></script>
<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="path/to/canvastext.js"></script>
<script language="javascript" type="text/javascript" src="path/to/flotr.js"></script>
}}}

The first `script` tag is included as a html conditional statement. This makes sure the [http://code.google.com/p/explorercanvas/ excanvas] javascript file is only included when the visitor uses Internet Explorer. Firefox, Safari and Opera 9 support the `canvas` tag which allows 2d drawing. Internet Explorer has something similar to the `canvas tag`, called [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_Markup_Language VML]. Excanvas brings the canvas functionality to Internet Explorer, but is not needed by other browsers.

Now we’ve included the javascript files, you need a `div` element in which the graph will be displayed. When drawing, Flotr inserts two `canvas` tags into the `div`. The first `canvas` element is used to draw the background grid, the axis and the graph. The second `canvas` element is used as an overlay that displays user interaction.

It’s very important to set the width and the height of the container div. You can do this with an inline style attribute, or just by a css rule. An example of a container div:

{{{
<div id="container" style="width:600px;height:300px;"></div>
}}}

That’s all html you’ll need. Of course you can style the various parts of the graph that’s generated by Flotr. Read more about it in the css section.


To be continued